# Text View Usage

## Command Overview

- blur: blurs the current image
- sharpen: sharpens the current image
- sepia: applies sepia onto the current image
- grayscale: applies grayscale onto the current image
- create: creates a new layer image based on a user supplied name for the layer
- remove: removes a layer based on the given name from the user
- current: makes the layer associated with the given name the current layer if the current layer is
  removed, the current layer will become the next closest layer or non-existent if no more layers
  remain (i.e. if there are three layers and the second one is removed and was the current, the
  current will become the third layer)
- load: loads an existing image to the current layer, will not load in layer if no layers exist yet
- loadall: loads an existing multi-layered image based on a given text file
- save: saves the topmost, visible layer
- saveall: saves the entire multi-layered image in a folder of a given name as well as a text file
  named layerInfo.txt which contains the information for each layer in the model
- invisible: makes a layer invisible based on a given layer name
- visible: makes a layer visible based on a given layer name
- colortransform: performs a color transformation on a given image and adds it to the list of layers
  using a filter based on user input
- createdefaultimage: creates a new checkerboard image with default colors, and a number of
  tiles/size of tiles that are given by the user
- createimage: creates a new checkerboard image with a user's chosen colors and chosen number of
  tiles/size of tiles based on user input
- filter: filters a given image and adds it to the list of layers using a filter based on user input
- downscale: reduces the width and the height of a given image based on the desired width and height
  generated by the user.
- NOTE: if the user inputs an invalid layer name, image, etc. an error message will appear.

## Example of How to Use Each Command and Order

```
create first
create second
create third
current second
load res/Checkerboard.ppm # loads it in as layer second
blur
sepia
grayscale
save
current third
create fourth
remove fourth
load res/puppy.ppm
sharpen
grayscale
loadall res/correct/layerInfo.txt # loads in new layers based on the layer information provided in the text file
invisible third # makes third layer invisible, so the current will default to be second instead
createdefaultimage 1 2 # creates a 2x2 checkerboard image with tiles of size 1
createimage 1 2 3 4 5 100 244 10 # creates a 2x2 checkerboard image with tiles of size 1 and custom colors
visible third
colortransform res/puppy.ppm sepia # performs sepia on puppy image and adds to layers
filter res/puppy.ppm blur # performs blur on puppy image and adds to layers
saveall newDir #saves all the images in a directory named newDir
```

## Syntax

Here's the syntax necessary to understand how to input commands:

```
- Create a New Layer: create nameOfLayerToCreate
- Make a Layer Current: current nameOfLayerToBecomeCurrentLayer
- Blur an Image in the Current Layer: blur
- Sharpen an Image in the Current Layer: sharpen
- Apply Sepia to an Image in the Current Layer: sepia
- Apply Grayscale to an Image in the Current Layer: grayscale
- Remove a Layer: remove nameOfLayerToBeRemoved
- Load an Image to the Current Layer: load filePathToTheImageToLoadIn
- Load an Image based on a Text File: loadall pathToTextFileWithMultiLayeredImageData
- Save Topmost Visible Image: save
- Save All Layers: saveall nameUserWantsTheDirectoryThatHoldsTheLayersToBeCalled
- Make Given Layer Invisible: invisible nameOfLayerToBeMadeInvisible
- Make Given Layer Visible: visible nameOfLayerToBeMadeVisible
- Perform Color Transformation on Given Image: colortransform pathToTheImageFile nameOfColorTransformation
- Filter Given Image: filter pathToTheImageFile nameOfFilter
- Create Default Colored Checkerboard: createdefaultimage sizeOfTile numTilesPerRow
- Create User Generated Checkerboard: createdefaultimage sizeOfTile numTilesPerRow firstColorRedValue firstColorGreenValue firstColorBlueValue secondColorRedValue secondColorGreenValue secondColorBlueValue
```

# GUI View Usage

## Command

- Create Layer Button: Creates a layer with the given name inputted in the text box, if a layer with
  that name already exists, a pop up error message will be shown
- Remove Button: removes the current layer, if there is no current layer, an error message will pop
  up
- Invisible Button: makes the current layer invisible. if there is no current layer, an error
  message will pop up if the layer made invisible was the topmost layer, then the next layer will be
  displayed
- Visible Button: makes the current layer visible. if there is no current layer, an error message
  will pop up if the layer made visible was the topmost layer that was invisible before, then the
  topmost layer image will be displayed again.
- Create a Checkerboard Button: creates a checkerboard with a given side dimension and tile size.
  The user can also pick two colors or leave them blank for default colors (red/black) to create the
  checkerboard image. If there are already layers with images of a different dimension, then an
  error message will pop up since all images being edited must be the same size. When the user is
  picking their colors, a sample color will be displayed to show them what they are choosing.
- Blur/Sharpen/Sepia/Grayscale Buttons: These buttons will all apply the operation onto the current
  photo the user is on (not necessarily the topmost image). If there is no image associated with the
  layer or if no layers have been created yet, then the operation will not be applied and an error
  message will be displayed. Note: a layer with an image must be created before these buttons will
  work without an error displayed
- Load Button: Loads in an image into the current layer. If there is no current layer, an error
  message will pop up. Additionally, if an image being loaded in is of a different dimension than
  the layer images that already exist, then it will not be loaded in and an error message will pop
  up as well.
- Load All Button: Loads in all the photos in a multi-layered image based on a layer info text file
  that has been produced by the Image Processor. If the text file is malformed, doesn't exist, or if
  the images inside it are not the same dimension, then an error message will pop up.
- Save Button: Saves the topmost visible image, if one does not exist, will show an error pop up
  message. When saving an image, must name the filetype with a valid extension type (i.e.
  file.jpeg/jpg/png/ppm).
- Save All Button: Saves all the images that are being edited in this image processor along with a
  layer info text file that contains the information about this multi-layered image (visibility,
  image associated, layer order).
- Mosaic Button: Takes in a given number of seeds and applies the mosaic effect onto the current
  image based on those seeds. If no layers exist or if no image is associated with the current
  layer, then the program will show the user a pop up error message
- Downscale Button: Enter the height and width to downscale the image layers to in the text box next
  to the button and then press downscale to downscale it. If no images are associated with the
  layers or if no layers exist, then an error message will pop up. If the user tries to downscale an
  image to a size that is larger than its current dimensions, an error message will also pop up.

## Example of how to use

Creating three layers where one is invisible and all three are the same dimension:

```
Steps:
- Input 1 in the text box to the left of create layer then press create layer 
- Input 2 in the text box to the left of create layer then press create layer 
- Input 3 in the text box to the left of create layer then press create layer 
- Click on the button called 3 and then press invisible (now third layer should be invisible)
- Click on the 2 button
- Press load to load in flower.jpeg in the res/correct file
- Press the 1 button and then load in flower.png in the res/correct file
- Press sepia to apply sepia to the current layer (1), should see the effect since it's the topmost layer
- Attempt to create a checkerboard with side dimension 2 and tile size 2, should pop up with an error because
  the checkerboard image is different dimensions from the flower images
- Press save to save the image associated with layer 1
- Press saveAll to save the entire multilayered image. Can save it with a new directory
  name or in a pre-existing directory
```